hello this is chef john from Food Wishes
calm with how to make your own herb salt
this is a fantastic holiday gift idea
whether you can't think of what to get
that certain person or you don't have a
lot of cash alright so this stuff's so
easy to make very cool makes a great
gift for any foodie also makes a great
little extra stocking stuffer so we're
gonna do is we're going to take some
fresh herbs i'm using rosemary and lemon
thyme i have the advantage of having an
herb garden which you know you should
really have but if you don't just get
some at the supermarket we're going to
watch those herbs really well alright
we're going to pick them and we're going
to dry them really well so we don't have
to chop them here because they're all
going to get processed with the salt but
we do want it really dry we don't want
to put wet stuff with salt so the first
step here is to grind this in a food
processor with coarse sea salt alright
this is too coarse to eat as is but this
larger size is actually going to help us
pulverize all that herb and then we're
going to mix it with salt in the second
step so I'm going to put about a half
cup pack of fresh herb in my food
processor with a half cup of the coarse
sea salt and we're going to pulse on and
off on and off on and off let it run for
a second or two turn it off until it
looks like that alright so once it looks
like that which is really really
beautiful as you can see all that coarse
salt is now basically the same size as
regular sea salt and to that we're
simply going to add a cup of regular sea
salt or kosher salt you want something
flaky something has a nice you know
fairly large crystal get that a couple
pulses on and off and you're done how
easy is that fresh herb salt I'm going
to pour it out into a baking dish to let
it dry out a little bit now those herbs
were dry but they still have moisture in
them so what I like to do is leave this
out on a tray like this or a pan for
maybe two three hours just out in the
open and that will help evaporate a
little bit of that moisture so this is
called a finishing salt mean it
sprinkled onto cooked food once it's
done things like french fries said of
regular salt toss them with this just so
many so many delicious things you can do
with it alright so once that's dried a
little bit
so we are going to simply jar it up i
just use these little mason jars all
right so there you go very simple very
easy and not even something you can
really buy in a store i mean there's you
know herb mixes and salt rubs and things
like that but this is homemade extra
special and the person you get it for i
think will appreciate it more that's
something you just grabbed off the shelf
at you know bed bath and beyond a day
before Christmas alright if you want to
get extra extra fancy you can get some
of this craft paper and you can make
your own customised labels there you can
see Uncle John's famous fresh herbs salt
use on or with food you know as opposed
to deicing your steps anyway hope you
give it a try all the ingredients are on
the site as usual and as always enjoy